hey everyone it's neil patel and today
is another day of growth hacking
unlocked if you missed any of the
previous lessons you can find them at
neilpatel.com training and just click on
growth hacking unlocked in today's
lesson we're going to be discussing the
principles of growth hacking so why use
growth hacking
well it saves on advertising costs it's
more efficient and it's a much quicker
way to grow than just using the
traditional channels and in many cases
when you just use the traditional
marketing channels to grow it costs a
lot of money and you have to raise
venture capital which is why we
discussed that in the previous lessons
but if you use growth hacking you can be
much more efficient and you don't need
as much capital to grow faster
the first step with growth hacking is
about having a product people want it
doesn't matter how good you're at
marketing if people don't like your
product or they don't like your service
you're not going to do well so make sure
you always fine-tune your product even
if it's not perfect that's okay you can
always continually improve it over time
growth hackers they think differently
and they're focused on creating a
product that truly satisfies a specific
group and the reason they do this is
when you figure out who are your super
fans
and you figure out all right this is
what they're looking for this is the
messaging that appeals to them it's much
easier to target them and it's much
easier to grow and scale faster than
just doing a blanket approach and
targeting everyone which gets very very
expensive there's three disciplines that
i want to cover in today's lesson
psychology technology and marketing
growth hacking is when you use marketing
psychology and technology and you
combine them all to achieve business
growth
for maximum users revenue sales and to
give you a rough idea of this
let's say you are a software company
well your sales team can help you grow
faster your design team can help you
grow faster through onboarding your
customer success team can upsell right
customer success is also another word
for support or variation of it not
necessarily the same exact thing but
they're similar
so
other departments on top of marketing
can help you grow in many ways
now let's dive into psychology first
with psychology a lot of people are like
all right this product was 30 now it's
10 and in essence they're doing a sale
and that creates a lot of movement in
the product and when you have sales that
works out well but you're like hey i
don't always have a sale running that's
okay you can use psychology in different
ways with pricing for example when you
go movie theater the small popcorn maybe
three bucks the medium size which is
double the size could be six dollars and
50 cents and then the large one which
would be probably like three four times
the size of the small one would be like
seven dollars and they do this why
because you're like wow that's a really
good deal let me just go buy the seven
dollar one the medium one doesn't seem
like a good deal the small one you know
and not that much popcorn the large one
it's not that expensive for how much
popcorn you get i use psychology within
my own websites a good example of this
is social proof on the neil patel
digital site and that's worked out quite
well for us
intercom they have custom landing pages
that's really helped them boost their
conversions in many cases is triple
their conversion rates here's some
examples of the landing pages and the
reason this is important when you're
using psychology within your copy within
the images is when you're driving things
like pay traffic if your conversion rate
isn't as high
well your roi is not as good and you
can't spend as much
if you optimize your landing page with
copy maybe even use some direct response
uh lingo within your landing page using
survey data running a b tests if you end
up tripling your landing pages through
things like personalizations well it
allows you to continually spend more and
acquire more users the big thing that i
want you to take away when using
psychology
it also needs to be logical if it's not
logical it doesn't work as well yes you
want to play against emotions but you
want to play against emotions and logic
for example i use free trial offerings
within my neilpatel.com site uh with my
uberstatus app works extremely well
because people can try it out for free
that's logical boost my conversion rates
yes some people drop off the trial quite
a bit actually which is normal but in
total i make more money versus not
having the free trial and what's even
better than that is the power of free
uber gave away free rides at south by
southwest in 2013.
at this event it was you know a lot of
influential people were speaking there
and it really helped put people or more
so uber on the map and be like wow this
is amazing and it's cheaper to do that
than it was to pay for advertising
another company that has done really
well is semantics i've worked with one
of the founders steven there
and they've generated over 4.5 million
dollars from over eight product
launchers and their subscriber base has
grown through a million plus users
technically 1.1 and they did this
through a lot of competitions and
giveaways and semantics has built a
great uh following and they're growing
their business from doing a lot of
competitions uh and giveaways such as
and here's the example of this hey we're
giving away twelve thousand dollars
worth of music products and prizes for
two year anniversary just putting your
email address or they'll do ads with the
competitions with the interactive video
they ask for a like and share to be
entered and they request you to tag to
friends and that's really help them grow
fast another strategy is product demos
and explainer videos we used to use them
on crazyegg.com years ago we used a
company called demoduct back in the day
to create them uh there's tons of
options now i don't know if demodux
still exists or not
and you can do it for more than just
software companies or technology
companies you can also do it for
e-commerce products you know 73 more
visitors who watch product videos will
buy
videos appear in roughly 14
of internet search results so it's a
great way to get extra traffic and 71
percent of consumers thinks videos
explain the product better and 50 7 are
less surprised by products with the
video which causes less refunds and 58
of shoppers think companies with product
videos can be trusted so you should
really consider creating a video if you
don't have one
another quick and easy way that you can
grow as well
similar to you know using product videos
as a hack this one is exclusivity
gmail did something similar when they
first came out dropbox did something
similar and they incentivize users by
providing them 500 megabytes of free but
if you wanted more just keep inviting
more people and this just worked out
really well and they had those viral
flows with twitter which just allowed
them to grow super fast over time and it
helped create the viral word of mouth
they also created a video on the dropbox
homepage to explain how dropbox works
how to use it and that helped them as
well
if you're wondering how to create one of
these videos you can use animoto it's
really simple i also recommend that you
use humans humans in your video to
explain things just keeps things really
simple i recommend you keep it short
don't have 20 30 minute videos if you
don't need to if you can have a one
minute video even better 30 seconds
anything that you can do to imply
urgency and the best product videos tend
to tell a story as well as demo so those
two things are super important
i also want you to try progression as a
psychological hack and here's what i
mean by this you know video games you
keep one going to get to the next level
and win
and people are obsessed with making
progress and the idea of
helping them achieve their goals is
great so whatever they're doing help
them level up and achieve more and
that's a great way to
get them to really stick with it and
continue pushing forward
i also want to show you advanced sales
funnel that i use to generate more leads
and sales i use a lot of psychology in
one of my funnels
i know it's a little bit hard to see you
can get copies of all this kind of stuff
at neilpatel.com
training click on growth hacking
unlocked and go to week two it's the
first video lesson in there
and you can see i drive traffic to a
landing page collect the lead send them
to thank you page and through email i'll
get them to go to sales page um download
reports
eventually i try to get them on the
order page even offer one-time upsells
and then i'll continue to have more
emails to get them to the sequence in
case they didn't click through on the
first email as well
here's another variation of it don't
worry about
you know looking at each and every
single step again you can get this at
neilpatel.com
training click on growth hacking
unlocked and in there click on week two
it's the first video lesson in there a
lot of people use advanced funnels good
example of this is my buddy timothy
sykes helped him grow to 15 million per
year he's much bigger than that now
and timothy really grew through funnels
it just worked really really well for
him so imagine combining traditional
marketing with technology and psychology
and that's where the power comes from
that's how you grow a business now in
the next video lesson i'm going to be
covering the other aspects of growth
hacking that we didn't really discuss
too much on today's lessons such as
technology if you need any help email us
at support neilpatel.com or you can just
leave a comment below if you enjoyed the
video like it share it tell the people
about it make sure you subscribe to the
channel and if you want my team to just
do their growth hacking for you check
out my ad agency np digital thank you
very much